---
layout: post
title:  "Blog Post 12"
date:  2020-04-28 0:10:25 -0800
categories: jekyll blog
---
For the thirteenth and final week, members of my group plan to communicate and collaborate on our work in an online meeting tomorrow using the Discord web service. We will thoroughly examine and evaluate the functionality of our segmented code during this time. Afterwards, we will proceed by reconciling these segments with each other as to better prepare for the presentation in which we are supposed to demonstrate our project as a whole. It is unclear at the moment if we will be able to complete the project and have it fully assembled in time for the presentation, so that the CI/CD Pipeline will operate as intended within the AWS (Amazon Web Services) Management Console. The overall goal is to construct the pipeline and use it to push online chat data from the Discourse forum software stored inside the CodeCommit data repository to the CodeDeploy agent that will implement in an active web browser session. I currently believe that the CodeBuild feature is not necessarily required for this purpose and its absence will not greatly impact the overall project. The inclusion of Terraform and other forms of code such as Ansible will be utilized with certain aspects of the project as ensure they are working properly. However, I do not know if we have enough time to integrate all of our code into a single environment that is capable of running it. I have been focusing my efforts on the CodeCommit, CodePipeline, and CodeDeploy services in AWS through the use of Terraform scripts in the Ubuntu terminal. So far, I have only been able to successfully setup the initial S3 Bucket and the CodeCommit repository. The repository is not only capable of holding information but also transferring it from place to place. I can manipulate the flow of data in either direction by moving various files to and from a specified location like the repository or the remote directory on the local machine. I tried to configure the CodeDeploy and CodePipeline elements, but they are not yet operational. I created a simplified EC2 instance that would connect to the CodeDeploy service to function. I used code from both the Terraform and AWS documentation pages as well as the code that was uploaded to GitHub by the user called Artemmkin. These examples have really been helpful while coding the cloud infrastructure and provided me with valuable tips as to how to overcome difficult areas. To progress further with my Terraform code, I will try to contact the professor and discuss the issues I am experiencing with her as to seek additional assistance. I am currently receiving two error messages involving the key pair that is required by the instance I constructed and the tags that are connected to both the web server and the Code Deploy agent. I have tried getting around these problems with alternative code or omitting certain parts, but the errors continue to persist. In addition, I am uncertain where to place the CodeDeploy installation script for the EC2 instance as to get it to execute and what exactly to specify in the appspec.yml file. From the AWS tutorial that I took regarding a basic pipeline in the console, I determined that the appspec file has to be placed in the cloned repository located within the remote directory on the local machine once it is synchronized online through the terminal. The contents of this file show that there are two paths that are specified in the upper region. It appears that the file is used to run some type of backend code behind the scenes on the web server by performing some type of operation. The goal is to eventually assemble this code into something that is more presentable once its quality has been properly enhanced. I plan to repurpose certain and change certain aspects of slides from the previous two presentations, so that I will have a number of topics to discuss during the online showcase of the group's work. This will also setup an initial presentation in which my fellow group members can add their own slides where appropriate. I hope everything will work out in the end and wish everyone the best of luck in the future. I would also like to thank the professor for her effort and steadfast dedication during uncertain times as well as the help she provided in class. Having Professor Smith as my teacher this and last semester has been a very positive experience. I appreciate all the help she provided me with throughout my time with her, and the lessons she taught have been beneficial since they exposed me to new areas of computing that I had previously no experience in prior to taking CIT480 and CIT481. She helped me many times learn the course material and interacted with students in such a fashion as to better and more clearly explain the topics covered. 