---
layout: post
title:  "Blog Post 8"
date:  2020-04-01 0:10:25 -0800
categories: jekyll blog
---
For the ninth week, I worked on finishing the fifth and sixth modules located on the Amazon Web Services (AWS) training website to increase my understanding of certain topics and key features related to AWS as a whole. This pursuit of knowledge will hopefully provide me with the experiences I require to pass the certification exam down the line. In both of these modules, I went over several videos and listened to the material that they covered in detail. The fifth focused on content delivery and the networking capabilities of specific services, while the sixth was mostly centered around various compute resources that are available to the user in the management console. Similar to the previous modules, I answered a series of questions after each set of videos to complete them. They were a combination of multiple choice questions, select the best answer, and true or false queries. There were a few times when I felt the questions seemed a bit unclear because they focused on particular details that were not explained as well as other subjects. Even though I may have encountered some issues along the way, I received passing scores for the two quizzes associated with the modules. They were not overly difficult questions, but I feel that the way some of the questions were presented might have initially confused me. The phrasing of certain questions appeared to discuss topics differently than the information that was previously mentioned before in the videos. Their inclusion was the only problem I really came across in the modules since I found no other issues blocking my progression. For the time being, I have mostly been concentrating on the question and answer portion of the AWS certification material as well as the practice labs accessible through the Vocareum portal. They are good exercise that continuously build upon my knowledge of AWS by improving my understanding of certain areas of the management console and demonstrating how to use important features in the centralized hud. This information is then cemented over an extended period of time as I interact with various aspects of cloud infrastructure.  

In addition to studying about the services that exist in the management console, I also created multiple slides for the group presentation on Saturday to emphasize our progress in the project. I accomplished this in part by recycling some of the slides from the previous presentation in which we presented our plan for the project. Some of the details in the material I used were changed, appended to, and rearranged to better convey specific concepts such as the primary AWS services utilized in the project, how they are organized, and what is their purpose. Furthermore, I constructed several slides that covered the S3 Bucket storage container, CodeCommit data repository, and the CodePipeline by displaying the Terraform code I used to implement these features in the Ubuntu terminal and the output I received in the management console. As I developed each slide, I briefly reflected upon certain elements and their inclusion in the overall process. I thought of how members of the group would be able to push data onto the repository and pull files from it as well. This concern prompted me to research the particular methods that would achieve this result. I eventually came across two commands that can be used in the terminal to establish this type of connection between the online repository and a point of contact on my local machine. I found this information in three of the AWS documentation links I had previously saved earlier on in a text file. The specific webpages they connected to guided me in forming an SSH channel of communication amongst these two locations. The first command is listed as "git clone ssh://git-codecommit.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/v1/repos/MyDemoRepo my-demo-repo" and it performs a data transfer in which information flows from the repository to a specified directory on my Desktop, whereas the other command, or rather set of commands, moves files from the directory on my Desktop to the online repository located within AWS. They are "git config --local user.name "your-user-name", "git config --local user.email your-email-address", "git add filename.extension", "git commit -m 'Message'", and "git push -u origin master". These commands set certain values, prepare the online environment for new data, creates a description for the upload, and moves files to their destination in the management console. With these commands, members of my group should be able to easily regulate data as they see fit when interacting with a CodeCommit data repository. The only steps they should have to perform will be to configure their SSH credentials in AWS and install the Git component for the terminal commands to be processed properly. 

