---
layout: post
title:  "Blog Post 3"
date:   2020-02-20 0:10:25 -0800
categories: jekyll blog
---
For the fourth week of class, I tried working on the two labs related to Amazon Web Services (AWS) on the Vocureum website. The first one covered the Identity and Access Management (IAM) web service, while the second one went over constructing and utilizing a Virtual Private Cloud. I attempted to follow the listed steps provided within each of these labs, but there currently appears to be some type of synchronization problem associated with the Vocureum website. It does not open a live session in the AWS management console window that is linked to my personal AWS Educate account. Therefore, the preset infrastructure and specified values that are supposed to exist are not setup for me to interact and modify as indicated by the instructions. In addition to having difficulty setting up the tutorial environment, I encountered a few issues that prevented me from completing the first lab when attempting to follow the listed steps. I found the included instructions to be informative and detailed since they presented the educational material in a clear and coherent manner. The text seems to accurately describe the situation and there are a series of vivid pictures that offer an informed perspective into each step; however, I noticed some things about the lab that made it a bit more difficult to follow along with the listed instructions that are included within it. Besides the preset infrastructure and values missing from the management console, it was unclear what were the required permission policies for IAM users and their associated groups since these key attributes were absent. I was able to set the managed (built) policies for the users and their groups because they were specified in the instructions, but when it came to the inline permissions things became unclear. I did not know what particular settings were supposed to be set for the tutorial, so I felt I was already making a mistake at this point in the lab. On the surface, its setup appeared similar to the managed policies since they both had fields for the expected operational outcome relating to its effect, actions, and resources even though the available values for these fields were different from each other. I learned that built policies are those that are preset by the AWS management console and are repetitive in nature since they are designed to be reused, while the alternative being inline permissions that focus on single users and groups and one-off situations. Another interesting detail I observed was the absence of the IAM user password. This is because the field seemed to be empty instead of having a default or randomized value stored within it. I tried to change this by setting the password so it matched the one listed in the lab, but I did not see any way of accomplishing this at the time. Although these issues prevented me from following along in the console, I feel that I understand what the purpose of the lab was. It was to teach me about IAM users, groups, and how to connect them with different permission policies. 

Unlike the previous tutorial, I was able to complete the second lab without any major issues due to the removal of predefined infrastructure and values as well as the provided step-by-step instructions that went over the process in some detail with included pictures attached to key steps. These features of the lab highlighted important areas of focus and centered my attention on those points. By following the instructions present in the lab, I was able to construct and connect together a Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), a series of subnets, a security group, and an EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud) instance. Though I was able to make these resources in the AWS management console, there were several issues that led to me having a certain degree of uncertainty when I encountered them in the lab. The first of these issues was the fact that there was no mention of creating an Elastic IP (Internet Protocol) address for the VPC. Since this resource is required for the VPC it could have been discussed earlier in the tutorial. Also, there could of been more detailed information on how the CIDR block notation was chosen for the specified subnets. It just gave the required values for the field without going over them by explaining how to get the specific numbers used in the instructions. I was able to follow the procedure here, but improving upon this knowledge could better help me understand it as a whole rather than just connecting resources together. Besides those issues, the tutorial appeared to briefly skim over the attached gateways used to regulate internet traffic for the VPC. It mentioned there were NAT and IGW variations, but it could of been helpful if the instructions discussed how they related to private or public subnets. The IGW gateways seem to communicate directly with the internet, while NAT gateways communicate with the internet indirectly. I assume that the private subnets correspond to the NAT gateway and the public subnets are connected to the IGW gateway to facilitate more direct communication with the internet. Although I could follow the instructions within this lab in a step-by-step process and the specified resources were able to run properly, I felt it to be vaguer than the preceding tutorial. At the moment, I feel that my understanding of subnetting, and how it relates to the route tables is still shaky.